README.md, before:

# Rails on Docker

This example app follows the book Docker For Rails Developers and creates a Rails app that runs on Docker.

## Housekeeping

By default, Ruby buffers output to `stdout`, which doesn’t play well with Compose. Let’s fix this by switching off Ruby’s output buffering. Add the following line to the top of your `config/boot.rb` file:

```
$stdout.sync = true
```

## Running the app (the cool way)

Use Docker Compose to specify your needs in a declarative way and let it do all the heavy lifting.

```shell
docker compose up

# If anything seems "cached" and you wan to start fresh:
docker compose up --build
```

Compose will only build images if they don't exist. You are responsible for rebuilding things as needed.

## Running the app in Docker (manually, not cool)

First, make sure you have an image built:

```shell
docker build -t myapp .
```

Once that's built, you can run a container:

```shell
docker run -p 3000:3000 myapp
```

## Interactive shell for `web`

If you've dockerized your Rails app, then you're no longer going to run `rails` commands from your local terminal. Heck, you might not even have the correct Ruby version installed or any of your app's gems. All that stuff is in the containers you've set up.

Instead, we can run bash and attach to the already running `web` container. (This assume you've already done `docker compose up`)

```shell
docker compose exec web bash
```

Now that you've got an interactive shell, you can go to town with stuff like `rails db:migrate` or any other useful `rails` commands.

### Testing

It might be obvious now that you can also run your tests from here. This repo has Rspec set up and a simple `rspec` from the prompt should start running tests, even JavaScript system tests with Capybara.

You can see your system tests running by opening up the Screen Sharing app on your Mac. You'll connect to `localhost:5900` and enter in the password `secret`. Doing this will allow you to watch the tests as they run -- they'll be fast!

## Debugging

If you would like to debug by dropping in a `debugger` to get an interactive session, you'll need to stop the currently running Rails server

```shell
docker compose stop web
```

Then, you'll start it back up again, but in a slightly different way:

```shell
docker compose run --service-ports web
```

Once you've done that, your breakpoints should work. Happy debugging!

Commit message:

Explained the need for .env directory
This is not checked into version control.

README.md, after:

# Rails on Docker

This example app started by following the book Docker For Rails Developers and has been updated by me as time goes on. It creates a Rails app that runs on Docker.

## Housekeeping

By default, Ruby buffers output to `stdout`, which doesn't play well with Compose. Let’s fix this by switching off Ruby’s output buffering. Add the following line to the top of your `config/boot.rb` file:

```
$stdout.sync = true
```

You will need to populate an `.env` directory at the root of your app. These files are sensitive and should not be checked into version control. The directory structure should look like:

```
.env
└── development
    ├── database
    └── web
```

Those files are referenced in `docker-compose.yml`. Here is some example content:

**.env/development/database**

```
POSTGRES_USER=postgres
POSTGRES_PASSWORD=aGoodStrongPassword
POSTGRES_DB=myapp_development
```

**.env/development/web**

```
 DATABASE_HOST=database
```

## Running the app (the cool way)

Use Docker Compose to specify your needs in a declarative way and let it do all the heavy lifting.

```shell
docker compose up

# If anything seems "cached" and you wan to start fresh:
docker compose up --build
```

Compose will only build images if they don't exist. You are responsible for rebuilding things as needed.

## Running the app in Docker (manually, not cool)

First, make sure you have an image built:

```shell
docker build -t myapp .
```

Once that's built, you can run a container:

```shell
docker run -p 3000:3000 myapp
```

## Interactive shell for `web`

If you've dockerized your Rails app, then you're no longer going to run `rails` commands from your local terminal. Heck, you might not even have the correct Ruby version installed or any of your app's gems. All that stuff is in the containers you've set up.

Instead, we can run bash and attach to the already running `web` container. (This assume you've already done `docker compose up`)

```shell
docker compose exec web bash
```

Now that you've got an interactive shell, you can go to town with stuff like `rails db:migrate` or any other useful `rails` commands.

### Testing

It might be obvious now that you can also run your tests from here. This repo has Rspec set up and a simple `rspec` from the prompt should start running tests, even JavaScript system tests with Capybara.

You can see your system tests running by opening up the Screen Sharing app on your Mac. You'll connect to `localhost:5900` and enter in the password `secret`. Doing this will allow you to watch the tests as they run -- they'll be fast!

## Debugging

If you would like to debug by dropping in a `debugger` to get an interactive session, you'll need to stop the currently running Rails server

```shell
docker compose stop web
```

Then, you'll start it back up again, but in a slightly different way:

```shell
docker compose run --service-ports web
```

Once you've done that, your breakpoints should work. Happy debugging!
